Welcome to our update.
In many parts of the world,
conventions are underway.
In fact, as of early July,
over 2.3 million have attended
the “Exercise Patience”!
Regional Conventions in person.
Seeing old friends
and making new ones at the conventions
is bringing so much joy to God’s people.
And the program is truly
spiritual “food at the proper time.”
Those who have already attended
the convention have benefited greatly,
and we assure those
who will be attending in the future:
You’re going to love it!
On June 1, tours of many Bethel facilities
resumed worldwide.
This has been so exciting
for the visitors and for the Bethel family.
Seeing the first tour group arrive
was exciting, so encouraging,
knowing the efforts that they’d made to come.
In honesty, I don’t know
who was more excited,
the Bethel family or the tour group,
because we really love to have them here.
My favorite part was the amazing surprise
of walking in and everyone being there
and welcoming us and waving
and so many hugs.
It was a great surprise.
The welcome we got was amazing,
and they just kept on coming
and talking to us.
When I think about it,
most of their lives
they’ve been watching updates
about Chelmsford on jw.org.
So to finally be here—
I just never imagined it would be possible.
It has been over a month now
since tours have resumed,
and it has been amazing!
We are originally from the Philippines,
and we are now in Canada.
We drove about eight hours
to get to Warwick Bethel.
We planned to tour Warwick in March of 2020.
Here we are three years later.
We said, “There’s one trip
that we have to plan
and make this year,”
and it was coming to visit Bethel.
I would definitely encourage families
to plan the trip.
It’s definitely encouraging spiritually,
but it’s something that your kids
are going to remember.
There are so many things in the museum
that you cannot really absorb them
in just one visit.
So, hopefully,
we will be back again.
These brothers and sisters
echo the inspired words of David,
as recorded at Psalm 122:1:
“I rejoiced when they said to me:
‘Let us go to the house of Jehovah.’”
We warmly invite you to experience
the joy of touring Bethel.
Please make a tour reservation on jw.org.
You can find more information
on the “Bethel Tours” page,
or you may contact your local branch office.
As announced on jw.org,
on Wednesday evening,
June 28, 2023,
the Ramapo project received a major approval.
The Town of Ramapo Planning Board
unanimously approved
the site plan for the project!
Although there are many permits
and technical details to work through,
this approval now allows
the project to proceed.
We are grateful for the hard work
of the Town Planning Board
and all the brothers and sisters
working behind the scenes.
And we thank Jehovah
for his continued blessing on this project.
In May 2022,
Brother Dennis Christensen
was released from prison.
Shortly after,
we interviewed him and his wife, Irina.
As you watch the following video,
notice what helped them
to endure and remain faithful.
We were at a meeting of our congregation
in the city of Oryol.
But then one of our ministerial servants
came running to me and said,
“Dennis, you have to go in the hallway.”
“OK, OK.”
I then went in the corridor,
and there were people standing there in masks
—a lot of police officers
and a lot of FSB people.
They showed their IDs and said
that they were going to search our hall.
After that, they also showed me some paper.
It was a ruling that I was
the main one in this case
and that they would arrest me for two days.
I thought: ‘It’s no big deal,
and it’s going to be resolved.
‘Two days is something I can live with.
Other brothers and sisters were in prison
before me, and I can do it too.’
And I was sure, too,
that Jehovah was protecting me.
The hardest part
was being separated from my wife, Irina.
The detention center is located
so that you can’t generally
see the prisoners, right?
I tried to find a place
where I could see his window.
And just from his window,
he could see me well.
And so we agreed that I would go there.
Dennis told me what time.
That was my favorite time,
you might say, of the whole day.
I was looking forward to 1:00 p.m.,
my opportunity to see Irina.
It was only five to ten minutes.
For two years we had this routine.
Irina came every day!
In the snow,
in the rain, in bright sunshine
—no matter what the weather was,
every day she was there.
It was our little secret that we reveal now.
For two years,
we didn’t tell it to anyone at all.
I really tried my best to be a good husband.
When I was in the detention center,
I tried to call her twice a month.
I tried to write her letters
five times a week.
I had friends supporting me,
coming over, visiting.
I got a lot of letters, and so did Dennis.
There were people who said,
“If you’re having a hard time,
you can call and text; we’ll come over.”
They offered all sorts of help,
and I am very grateful to them.
During the trial,
I particularly remembered
the support of the brothers and sisters.
That’s amazing!
Thank you, everybody, for coming.
I am very happy that you are here.
Thank you!
When I got my final sentence of six years,
then there were a lot of people
in the audience.
How I dealt with it:
I was very strict about my attitude
because I knew, basically,
as it says in Proverbs:
‘If you’re sad,
then your strength also disappears.’
I knew it would be a long struggle,
and I wanted to endure.
I tried to read the Bible every day
like I was supposed to and to meditate.
I did have a special notebook
where I wrote down good thoughts
from the Bible that would strengthen me.
For example,
I often remembered Isaiah 30:15,
where it says that we
have to ‘keep calm and trust in Jehovah.’
And that is our strength.
And very often I prayed
that I’d have peace in my heart,
that Jehovah would help me to keep my joy,
to be happy,
because I wanted it to be that way.
I often thought too:
‘Yes, OK, you can steal my freedom.
‘Yes, you can make me not see my family
‘and not be able to hug them
as often as I’d like.
‘But inside,
I will not let you steal my peace;
‘I will not let you steal my joy.
‘I want to be happy, to serve Jehovah,
to do as he wants
because he is a happy Father.’
Dennis once wrote this interesting phrase,
“If you want to be happy, make others happy.”
And that thought helped me a lot.
And I was always busy.
I was always looking for opportunities
to help someone
—who to visit and who to bring groceries to—
or to visit the sick.
A member of the prison staff said to me,
“Dennis, I can see that you’re very joyful.”
I said: “Yes, I’ll be free soon;
“all my thoughts are there right now.
“It’s like I’m not here.
I’m already out there.”
Then he said to me,
“Look, Christensen, you’ve never been here.
“You’ve always been on the outside.
“You’ve always been free.
You’ve always been joyful and happy.”
I also imagined that day many times:
when I’d go out,
when I’d see
my brothers and sisters again and my family,
and when I’d hug them.
I was amazed at the number of people
who were already there.
They got there early,
and they were people
from completely different cities.
We already knew ahead of time
that there would be a few people
who would meet us at Copenhagen Airport.
But it was a great feeling
when we saw
so many brothers and sisters there
who were shouting with joy.
I hugged everybody.
I had waited a long time for this,
so there were a lot of emotions there.
Now we’re back in Denmark.
Here we have to start a new life,
start from scratch.
We had an invaluable and unique experience
that we really want to use to help others.
You could say that prison
is a very good school
to polish your Christian qualities.
I’m out now, and I’m very happy about that.
But my prayers for my brothers and sisters
who are still in prison haven’t changed.
On the contrary,
I pray for them even more now
because I know what they’re facing there.
It’s not always easy,
but I’m also sure
that Jehovah helps them as he helped me.
Brother and Sister Christensen,
thank you
for sharing your experience with us.
We’re encouraged by your patient endurance.
I recall many years ago
when I was working with the brothers
behind the Iron Curtain,
I saw their faith and integrity.
It was so touching,
and that has stayed with me until now.
When we see vivid accounts
or hear reports about the faith
and determination of our brothers
in countries under ban today,
doesn’t it strengthen and inspire us?
We continue to pray
for the over
180 brothers and sisters worldwide
who are presently in prison for their faith.
As you watched the interview,
did you notice what helped
the Christensens to endure?
Brother Christensen said
that daily Bible reading
and meditation helped him.
He wrote strengthening thoughts
from the Bible in a notebook.
Brother and Sister Christensen
encouraged each other
by regular letters and phone calls.
And wasn’t it touching to hear
how seeing each other briefly
from a distance strengthened them?
They were also built up by the support
of their spiritual family.
And they did not just receive support;
they looked for opportunities
to help and encourage others.
Do you remember what Dennis wrote to Irina?
“If you want to be happy, make others happy.”
This reminds us of Jesus’ words
recorded at Acts 20:35:
“There is more happiness
in giving than there is in receiving.”
One of the scriptures that Dennis
said helped him through this trial
was Isaiah 30:15.
There we read:
“Your strength will be in keeping calm
and showing trust.”
We are pleased to inform you
that the full interview
of Brother and Sister Christensen
will be made available
on jw.org in the future.
Yes, just as Jehovah strengthened
the Christensens to endure their trial,
he will help all of us to endure faithfully
as we keep trusting in Jehovah!
Dear brothers and sisters,
we take note of your patient endurance.
Please know that we love you all very much.
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting®.